> 1. Program summary (300 words max, required)

> Provide a brief summary of the proposed program, including proposed location, target age group, and number of attendees. The summary should be written in language that could be used to announce the program to potential participants, through social media and on websites. This section of the application will be made public for comments, feedback, and voting.

The **[Northern California Writing Project](http://norcalwp.org)** (NCWP), a program of the Research Foundation at [California State University, Chico]<http://www.csuchico.edu), proposes to hold a 3-day [Hackathon](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hackathon) for students in or entering high school. The focus of the program will be on helping participants investigate, create, and remix content about their local community, with particular attention to the ways that such activities enhance participants' civic engagement with both face-to-face and online communities. 

Participants will use tools such as Mozilla's Thimble and Popcorn to create, publish, and share work on the web.  We we explore the role social media has in creative learning and attempt to leverage tools such as Twitter, Google+, Facebook, etc.  to collaborate on projects.  

The program will ask participants to create and contribute to a web-based, QR-coded Student Guide to Chico. Participants will identify community attributes that they enjoy (and Chico has these in abundance: a massive park with swimming holes, mountain biking, and hiking trails; a vibrant downtown with popular stores, community artwork, farmers' markets, and delicious restaurants; and myriad community groups focused on outdoor, musical, and artistic pursuits), and create online resources that highlight why they like those aspects of the community.  These online resources will be participant written, multi-media, informational web pages.  Participants will make descisions in design and production about how best to reach their audience.  They will then make and print QR codes linked to their online resources and place the codes at or near the community attribute.  

In this way, participants will get out into the Chico community to explore and research and learn about their community, as well as learn to tools that help them collaborate and share their findings with the larger community via the web.  We will explore how sharing information "openly" can help improve access to coolness in the real world.
